we begin with this Grim milestone in
Gaza the death told from Israel's
month-long War has now pass
25,000 and the number of dead and
injured is Rising by the hour
Palestinians have been transporting the
injured to hospital on pickup trucks for
lack of ambulances gaza's Health
Ministry says at least 178 Palestinians
have been killed in the last 2 24 hours
in the South Palestinian Fighters have
been confronting the Israeli military
near NASA Hospital in Han Yunis Israeli
attacks there have killed at least 14
Palestinians since Saturday also the UN
Secretary General has criticized
Israel's prime minister for his
rejection of a Palestinian State he was
speaking at a meeting of the g77 group
of nations in the capital of Uganda
Cala the repeated refusal yesterday to
accept the two-state solutions for
Israeli and Palestinians is totally
unacceptable as I told the summit of the
non-allied
movement the denial of the right to
statewood for the Palestinian people
would indefinitely prolong a conflict
that has become a major threat to Global
Peace and security exacerbate
polarization and then balen extremists
everywhere aljaz dorsa Jabari is at that
Summit in Cala dorsa you are with Mr
gueris the United Nations Secretary
General
yes uh I am now joined here live by the
Secretary General thank you for speaking
to aler I want to start with these two
Summits that are that have been going on
here in Uganda what has been your
reaction to the response that these
nations have given to the ongoing war in
Gaza and the strong words that have come
from these countries in response to the
Israeli bombardments of Gaza I think
that these Summits represent the strong
commotion of the global South in
relation to the L to the levels of death
and destruction we are witnessing in gas
I have condemned the attacks the terror
attacks of amas uh but I have to say
that uh the level of Civilian casualties
that we are witnessing in Gaza today is
unprecedented in relation to any other
conflict since I am Secretary General
and so
what the Hamas did cannot justify the
collective punishment of the Palestinian
people what is the solution if your
calls for dialogue with the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are
not being heard what is the next step to
move forward to try and bring an end to
this conflict I think that there are two
aspects one we have been asking for an
immediate humanitarian SE fire to
alleviate the dramatic suffering of the
people in Gaza to allow for Arian
distribution to facilitate the release
of the hostages that should be
unconditional and immediate but uh that
is not the solution solution in my
opinion is the acceptance by everybody
of the right of the Palestinian people
to State and the acceptance of a
two-state solution and of course um I
consider regrettable the fact that the
Palestinian prime minister has refused
that
possibility this is
unacceptable uh without a two-state
solution without these we will have a
conflict that never ends it will boost
extremism all over the world it will
polarize situations all over the world
and it is something that in my opinion
is totally unacceptable how do you think
African countries can help with this
conflict how effective uh could they be
in trying and putting pressure on
Regional power in the middle EAS I think
the voice of Africa is is important but
obviously uh only the parties uh can
solve the problem the voice of Africa
the voice of all those that claim for
the need of humanitarian fire that claim
for the two-state solution are very
important but it's essential that that
becomes a reality uh what role do you
think the UN can play other than a
diplomatic one uh to try and bring an
end to this conflict and the other uh
actors involved now because it's clearly
spreading from uh Yemen to Lebanon to
Syria uh what are your concerns and what
are you prepared to do to try and
prevent it from spreading no we are very
active uh
diplomatically uh particularly worried
with the possibility of an explosion in
the West Bank particularly worried uh
with the uh the risk risk of escalation
of the conflict in the border between
Lebanon and Israel um we do not want to
see another Gaza in Lebanon it is clear
uh so deescalation is essential uh and
at the same time we need to guarantee
Freedom na navigation in the Red Sea and
need to avoid uh what we are seeing
multiplying incidents in Syria in Iraq
so it is clear that this conflict is
spreading and that this is very
dangerous and the price will be paid by
all of us how are do you think the
United States can help because they're a
very big part of this and the houthis
have now said that their fair game in
their Red Sea because of their uh
support of Israel how do you think the
United States can be persuaded at least
the Biden Administration to step back a
little bit from their full-light support
of Israel I think it's very important I
have I recognize that United United
States have been very active in pushing
for more effective humanitarian Aid and
uh stressing the need of a two-state
solution and I think it's time uh uh for
uh Israel to listen uh to the United
States and to make these two objectives
that the American Administration has
been stressing to make them a reality
you and Secretary General Antonio gues
thank you so much for speaking to us on
Al jazer um as we get underway with the
g77 summit here in kalala there is a
sense that the Palestinian conflict is
at the Forefront uh as well as other uh
economic issues here uh but the UN
Secretary General making it very clear
that until there is peace in the Middle
East the entire world is not safe yeah
that's dorsa Jabari reporting there from
uh Cala in Uganda thank you very much
for bringing us that interview dorsa